The neuron is the basic working unit of the brain, a specialized cell designed to transmit information to other nerve cells, muscle, or gland cells. 

Neurons are cells within the nervous system that transmit information to other nerve cells, muscle, or gland cells. 
Most neurons have a cell body, an axon, and dendrites. 

Neurons are divided into four major types: unipolar, bipolar, multipolar, and pseudounipolar. 

Unipolar neurons have only one structure extending from the soma; bipolar neurons have one axon and one dendrite extending from the soma. 
A neuron communicates with other neurons at special places called synapses or synaptic clefts. 
To send a message, a neuron releases a chemical messenger, or neurotransmitter, into the synaptic cleft. 
Neurons (also known as neurones, nerve cells and nerve fibers) are electrically excitable cells in the nervous system that function to process and transmit information. 
In vertebrate animals, neurons are the core components of the brain, spinal cord and peripheral nerves.
A neuron consists of a cell body (perikaryon) and its processes, an axon and one or more dendrites. 
Neurons function in the initiation and conduction of impulses. 
They transmit impulses to other neurons or cells by releasing neurotransmitters at synapses. 
Multipolar neurons are the most common neuron in the vertebrate nervous system and their structure most closely matches that of the model neuron: a cell body from which emerges a single long axon as well as a crown of many shorter branching dendrites. 
Impulses that are sent along neurons are called action potentials. 
An action potential (also known as an impulse) is the electrical current that travels the length of an axon when a neuron has been stimulated. 
At rest the membrane inside of a neuron has a negative charge. This is called the resting membrane potential. 
The course of the actio n potential can be divided into five parts: the rising phase, the peak phase, the falling phase, the undershoot phase, and the refractory period. 
During the rising phase the membrane potential depolarizes (becomes more positive). 
An action potential is a transient, electrical signal, which is caused by a rapid change in resting membrane potential (-70 mV). This occurs when the threshold potential (-55 mV) is reached, this causes a rapid opening in the voltage-gated sodium channels leading to an influx of sodium ions into the cell. 
When an action potential occurs, a stimulus depolarized the cell membrane and voltage-gated sodium channels open as a result. 
Sodium ions enter the cell to further depolarize the membrane, which opens additional sodium channels. 

The hippocampus is a small organ located within the brain's medial temporal lobe and forms an important part of the limbic system, the region that regulates emotions. 
The hippocampus is associated mainly with memory, in particular long-term memory. 
The organ also plays an important role in spatial navigation. 
The hippocampus is a small, curved formation in the brain that plays an important role in the limbic system. 
The hippocampus is involved in the formation of new memories and is also associated with learning and emotions. 
Because the brain is lateralized and symmetrical, you actually have two hippocampi.
The first important distinction is that there are different types of memory. Each of these processes has a different underlying process that involves different brain regions. 
Short-term memory is considered the information currently held in mind. There are different short-term memories such us the phonological one(words) or the visuo-spatial one(objects). 
Working memory is considered a central executive system. It uses the phonological and visuo-spatial short-term memories as well as an episodic buffer containing information coming from the long-term memory to reason, comprehend and so on. 
Long-term memory is the information stored somewhere (probably neocortex) in the brain. This type of memory consists of all the events and concepts that we are exposed for a long period of type throughout our life. Some of these memories are accessed by the brain but not consciously accessible, while others are also consciously accessible. Based on this distinction, there are two types of long-term memories: 
Implicit memory refers to the memories that don’t involve conscious thought. In turn, this memory process can be either:
priming: It is the type of memory created by some event that we don't remember. The exposure to some situation that influenced the behavior of the individual without that the person is aware of this influence.
procedural memory: It stores information about how to perform certain procedures such as walking, talking and riding a bike.
Explicit memory refers to all memories that are consciously available. There are two types:
Semantic memory: It is responsible for storing information about the world. This includes knowledge about the meaning of words, as well as general knowledge. For example, London is the capital of England.
Episodic memory: It stores specific and personal information. These memories are associated to a place and a moment in time. An example could be a memory of our first day at school.
